there are two of these AI assistant
devices that are shipping really soon
there's the rabbit R1 and then there's
the Humane AI pin and both of these
companies have made some very impressive
but questionable claims as to what these
products are capable of doing so they've
shown examples of you know these devices
you can just talk to them have two or
three voice commands and it's booking an
entire trip for your family to Europe
it's wild and they also have examples
where they're like you know showing the
device uh a handful of almonds and it's
able to calculate calories or the amount
of protein that's in it and you don't
need your phone there's no launching of
apps the idea is that these devices will
make your life easier like you can use
AI to assist you with those different
repairs uh you can do like live
translation they allude to the idea that
you could replace your phone with one of
these devices down the line now as we
get closer to these ship dates I
couldn't help but just look more into
these companies like why is it that
these things are weeks away from
shipping and no one has handled one of
these things yet right it's kind of
weird so I went in and having done a
little bit of research I feel like we
might be getting fleeced okay I'm going
to start off with the rabbit R1 so this
is the more popular of the two this
thing is a $200 device cute looking
Hardware it's got some teenage
engineering design language going on has
a small screen a camera a analog scroll
wheel a speaker a button it's got very
simple hardware and at the time of
shooting this video they've supposedly
sold over 100,000 units on pre-order
this thing has popped off and then the
other device the Humane AI pin this is
by contrast a
$700 device and it also needs a $25
monthly subscription but this is also an
AI assistant but instead of a screen
this uses a projector that projects the
image of the UI onto your hand it's a
neat party trick maybe a little gimmicky
but this device is not handheld it's a
pin that can attach to your clothing now
they haven't revealed sales figures or
anything but it seems just by looking
online that this product hasn't had as
successful as a launch as a rabbit R1
probably because of it $700 price tag
with its monthly sub description now the
the first question you might have having
seen these two things is what do they
even do and that's a really important
question right but every single time
I've seen these companies answer that
question they they skirt around it they
they talk about these like AI buzzwords
they talk about you know contextual
Computing I I think the reason why they
don't like answering this question is
because it's an uncomfortable answer the
answer I think of what do these things
even do is that right now these products
they basically do what your phone does
but they're just not as good at doing it
your phone's better at it that means you
can use it however you want like what
what tell me something you would use
that for so you use it for just about
anything like uh sending texts or
checking up on any notifications that
you've gotten stuff that you do just all
the time how would I know without seeing
a screen that somebody was texting me
and I'm your phone is more versatile
it's more powerful it's more private
because these AI assistant devices lean
on voice interaction to be able to do
what they do you can't really watch
videos on these things or play games on
them and because you still have to carry
your phone around with you you now have
two devices you have to manage but these
AI assistant devices are rooted in AI
like they're built from the ground up
with operating systems that are entirely
based on AI and because of that you have
the ability to be able to talk to these
devices with voice commands and they can
carry out a task when is the next
eclipse and where is the best place to
see it the next total solar eclipse will
occur on April 8th 2020 4 one of the
best places to see it is Naz Durango
Mexico it can give you answers it can
perform a sequence of tasks that would
normally take like five to maybe even 10
clicks on a phone so there is value to
that right if you can just talk to
something with your natural language and
this device will just do
stuff however the follow-up question is
okay if that's what this thing can do
why is it not an app like why is this a
piece of Hardware that you have to buy
why isn't it just something you can
download from the app store or the Play
store okay this is a very important
question and every time they've been
asked this question these companies
again they Dodge it I feel like they're
just they won't just admit the the
simple reason as to why it's a piece of
Hardware well there's a few reasons
number one in order for an app to exist
that has the type of capabilities that
we're talking about here this app would
need elevated access to the operating
system like you would need access to
like passwords credit card info it would
need access to like the microphone the
camera the GPS like all of that stuff
off of a single tap of a button and
those things are locked out from
developers rightfully so right Apple and
Google there's no way they're giving
developers that type of access on one
click certainly not right now but the
other reason is that even if in the
future if apple and or Google decide hey
you know we're going to allow app
developers to have access to this off a
single click Apple and Google are
actively working on their own versions
of these things and when they do come
out like it'll have awesome Hardware
integration and integration with
partners and stuff they're in app would
absolutely destroy any kind of third
party app so right you don't want to
touch apps but the third reason and the
main reason is for attention because if
this was an app no one would care I
wouldn't been having this conversation
with you if they had an app that did
exactly what the rabbit or the AI pin
did but it was just an app that was on
your phone you had to pay 25 bucks a
month truly no one would care but
because it's a beautiful piece of
Hardware particularly the rabbit we're
talking about it like if you think about
it just my hot take half the reason why
the one got the attention that it did
cuz it looks like that it's got teenage
engineering Aesthetics it's not an
official collab or anything it just has
te hot sauce all over the design
language and so now you know what it is
and why it's not an app let's talk about
problems so uh the first problem I have
is that both of these primarily run off
voice commands where should Ken and I
grab dinner
tonight here are some recommendations
for you Sushi Ron shisen and elephant
sushi they lean on voice as the main way
to be able to interact with these two
devices but right now when we use our
phones and our regular apps there is a
lot of fine-tuning that we do like on
the screen by poking things and reacting
to stuff that happens on our phone in
real time like it doesn't matter what
you're doing if you're like uh you know
ordering food or trying to book a hotel
or a flight you are making decisions and
adjusting your thoughts looking at the
screen like you're seeing reviews or you
know an appealing photo or pricing like
there's stuff that's actively affecting
what you're going to click and tap next
and same with an Uber like I'll often
adjust my pin be like you know pick me
up across the street because that's
going to save me 5 minutes for like the
the turnaround right so there's stuff
that we actively do in our apps because
apps are built and optimized for human
interaction right now but to remove all
that stuff and to just have voice
commands with like a little bit of
adjustment on like a tiny screen that's
not how we use things the moment there's
some kind of like option assessment that
we have to do I think this whole voice
interaction thing falls apart it's
unfortunate but I think that's just the
way that humans interact with online
decisions right now and to expect an AI
to like my wife will spend two or three
days like full ass days focusing on how
to book a vacation you know what's the
exact thing that we're going to do you
think an AI can do it in two voice
commands bro come on man that's not
realistic and the fact that they're
showing it like that is I think
misleading the other thing they have
shown in some of their demonstrations
and also in released videos like on
their social media people interacting
with these devices like kind of the
pre-release devices and they're editing
the videos on the wait time like they'll
ask it a prompt who designed the
Williamsburg
Bridge the Williams and instead of
letting the video run so that the
viewers can get a sense of how long
these things actually take to respond to
things they'll cut the video and just
edit it to when the response happens it
is so weird it's like that weight time
that lag is a big factor in determining
how good or useful these things really
are there's the argument to be made like
okay this is pre-production engineering
stuff so the wait time that's live right
now isn't actually representative of
what the product will be in the future
sure throw some text up why are we
hiding the latency of this stuff behind
edits I hate that okay another thing I
want to talk about is in regards to the
Humane AI pin specifically so I remember
when they first showed off this laser
projector Tech at a Ted Talk and it was
really cool right it looked like it
could be really small but now that it's
out it turns out it's actually a fairly
chonky device but it's quite heavy so
unless you're wearing like a thick
material or you're wearing like really
tight fitting clothing this thing tends
to just flop around when you're using it
now it is strange to me that we're I
don't know a few weeks out from their
ship date and they still have not
allowed people to demo this thing live
like if you went to mwc you couldn't
handle these things you had to watch The
Humane employees demonstrate the product
for you to look at it was it's so weird
it's like people should at this point
have a good idea of what these things
feel like when they're being worn and
there were reports of the devices
overheating because the laser projectors
were being used too much like it's just
so strange that this is the state that
the product is in just weeks out from
the ship date I honestly think that the
the whole idea of the laser projection
is like it's a cool idea but I'm worried
it's a gimmick and my simple reasoning
is that if that feature was actually
good if a laser projected screen onto
your hand was something that people
actually wanted we would be able to go
to the store and buy that like you can
create that Tech today like you could
have a wireless like a device that just
your screen from your phone is
transmitted wirelessly and it's
projected to your hand you could make
that but it doesn't exist because I just
don't think people want that but Humane
is telling us that well that product's
not good what you just described Dave
but if you add AI to it and just make it
voice operated now it's good I don't buy
it I really don't okay the last thing I
want to talk about pertains specifically
to the rabbit R1 so this device has
something kind of special it's their
large action model the lamb and it's the
feature that gives me the most hope for
what they're trying to do with the R1 so
the easiest way I can think of to
describe what a large action model is is
that it's an AI model that performs
actions based on your prompting so
instead of just reacting to language and
text and stuff like that this can
actually do like Mouse clicks and
scrolling and it can be trained just
like a language model so if you just
showed this lamb how you edit a photo in
Photoshop let's say and then you got
5,000 people to show this lamb how they
do it it would learn and then in the
future it would be able to make its own
decisions or the lamb would be like hey
if you want to make a warm looking photo
this is what you do because I saw what
all these other people did in Photoshop
I click this I click that I scroll here
and that is a lamb a very primitive
description of it now I think the idea
is very cool but when they showed it
during the presentation they were first
of all they were
showing the use of their lamb on
services that have apis so I don't even
know if they're actually built Lambs
that function the way they did in the
presentation but also I imagine that
people that are pre-ordering this device
think that these Lambs are going to be
available right off the bat and they I
don't think they will be how could they
be I think the 100,000 people that
pre-ordered this thing they will be the
ones responsible for training these
things to be able to do whatever they
end up doing in the future so if you
bought one you're expecting to be able
to do anything other than like simple
GPT instructions or perplexity
instructions I don't think it can how
could it that has no training data as of
right now at least not enough of it to
make it actually functional or useful
and that I felt was a little bit
misleading now now they're they're a
business right they're they have to show
the best case scenario of what this
thing can do and I respect that but it's
just when I see the presentations when I
see the demos I'm like come on man
there's no way this thing can reliably
book a vacation in three voice prompts
like there's no way and also errors like
AI hallucinations right now when you
have an AI error like a hallucination in
mid Journey you just get a dude with 12
fingers we laugh at it it's hilarious
but if you have and hallucination with
large action models you're talking about
ordering 50 pizzas or like you know
ordering a booking a vacation that's
$20,000 over budget like this is real
stuff here because these are action
models I feel like it's irresponsible
for them not just to market it like they
it can do it but also to even have that
ability right now like it should be
super Super Beta and people should be
aware that this is not something you can
do right now the thing I have to keep in
mind and I think you guys also after
hearing my rant about this the thing we
have to keep in mind is like when it
comes to the technology that we have
access to today the things that we use
every day all of the stuff we use came
from lots of companies trying lots of
weird stuff and most of them ended up in
Failure but the result in the end is
awesome products for consumers so I
think these two products that's part of
it right that's part of the process to
get there I respect that and I want
these guys to succeed I don't want to
see them fail I want to see this stuff
pan out the way that it could but the
marketing right now is just so strangely
optimistic and like both of
them it doesn't make sense to me how can
you how can you be responsible and put
marketing material out like that that's
all okay
um that's it hope you guys enjoyed this
video